# ITG to DattoRMM Integration

This is a custom integration that will sync devices and device info from Datto RMM into ITGlue. We found we had numerous issues with the built-in integration in ITG where it wouldn't sync all the data we wanted, and just generally took too long. We use this custom integration to improve on this situation.

This script is still a **WIP**. We have been using it for a few months with success, but I cannot guarantee you won't run into any issues. Use it at your own risk.

### Important things to know
1. Currently the script will add devices and update them, but it will not remove or archive devices in ITG. We opted not to do this as sometimes devices would fall out of RMM but still be active in another one of our systems. I use our Device Audit script to instead compare activity in all our systems and archive devices in ITG that are no longer active anywhere. Currently it will output devices deleted in RMM to a csv file named: `DattoRMMDeviceDeletions-<date stamp>.csv`. It should be fairly easy to add auto-archive functionality, see line 829.

2. This script will cleanup Manufacturer names. If you do not want this, you will want to comment this out. Just search for the `Format-ManufacturerName` function and have it return the original manufacturer name (or add your own cleanup script). I have also included the helper script `ITG_Manufacturer_and_Model_Cleanup.ps1`, this can be used to cleanup manufacturer names of existing assets in ITG. It will try to create clean manufacturer names, move the models over, then delete the old manufacturer. There is a bug in ITG that sometimes prevents Manufacturers/Models from being deleted though.

3. This script uses the `installed-by` field in ITG to keep track of the RMM ID that an asset is synced to. If you use this field, you will need to modify this to a different field that you do not need. Unfortunately, ITG does not provide any way of adding a new field to configurations for this purpose, and even if you are using the built-in RMM integration, the API does not allow you to get the RMM ID that is synced with a configuration. As such, we've hijacked this field for this purpose.

4. For safety, I have added a check that will prevent device creation if there are more than 100 devices to add to ITG. Once we had the API fail and it mass added all of our devices over again. I have since put in checks to watch for API failures, but as an extra safety, I have left in the code to kill things if adding >100 devices. You may want/need to remove this on your first run temporarily, or permanently if you have a very large number of devices being added weekly (>100). These kill switches can be found on lines 847 and 1021.

### How it works
On each run it will export a full list of all the devices in RMM to a csv file (`DattoRMMDeviceList-date.csv`). It will then compare the current list against the last list to look for any changes. It then creates csv files containing all the new devices (`DattoRMMDeviceAdditions-date.csv`) and one for deleted devices (`DattoRMMDeviceDeletions-date.csv`). At this point it will also cleanup any old DeviceLists, keeping only the 5 most recent. Currently it never deletes Addition or Deletions csv's. For each new device found, it will create a new device in ITG. Currently it will not do anything for deleted devices other than export the csv of them. 

Once a week, the integration will perform a full audit where it checks each RMM device against ITG directly. All RMM devices are compared against each ITG device (within their respective organizations) and matched. Ideally this matching is performed on RMM ID (from the installed-by field), but if an ITG configuration is missing this, it will still attempt to match based on hostname, serial number, etc. It will then add any missing devices that have been seen in the last 2 months in RMM. It will also look for any changes to devices in RMM where the fields dont match the data in ITG, and update this data where appropriate. Full checks will automatically happen if one hasn't occurred in over 1 week and it is currently the middle of the night (11PM - 5AM). You can force trigger a full update as well with the FullCheck flag when running the script.

### Setup
1. Create a Config.ps1 file from the Config.ps1.template. 
2. Get the ID of the Status you want to use for new configurations from ITG and use this for `$ITG_ConfigStatusID`. (Navigate to Account > Configuration Statuses, Edit the status then get the ID from the URL)
3. Configure `$ITG_ConfigTypeIDs` for each RMM Device Type filling in device type ID's from ITG. (Navigate to Account > Configuration Types, Edit the type then get the ID from the URL)
4. Fill in `$ITGAPIKey` with your ITG API details and `$DattoAPIKey` with your Datto RMM API details. If you use an ITG API key with password access, the integration will also tag existing passwords to newly created configurations.
5. See the important points above, you may want to make changes to add auto device archiving, prevent manufacturer name cleanup, change the RMM ID field away from `installed-by`, and you may need to remove the safety check that prevents >100 devices being added to ITG.
6. If you are ok with it cleaning up manufacturer names, you may want to run the `ITG_Manufacturer_and_Model_Cleanup.ps1` script to clean things up initially.
7. Place the script on a device that is always on and setup a task scheduler to run it. This can be ran quite often. I have ours setup to trigger daily at 12:05 AM, then it repeats every 10 minutes for a duration of 1 day. This way it syncs new devices into ITG every 10 minutes. If you want to do full updates more often, you could add a second scheduler to run the integration with the ForceCheck flag on a regular schedule as well.